you believe that the Sun is much larger
than the earth that the earth is a
roughly spherical planet that rotates on
its axis every 24 hours and that
revolves around the Sun once every 365
days you believe that you were born on a
particular date that you were born to
two human parents and that each of your
human parents was born on an earlier
date you believe that other human beings
have thoughts and feelings like you do
and that you are not surrounded by
humanoid robots you believe all of these
things and many more not on the basis of
direct observation which can't by itself
tell you very much about the relative
size and motion of the Sun and the earth
or about your own family history or
about what goes on in the minds of other
humans instead these beliefs are mostly
based on what you've been told
without spoken and written testimonies
human beings could not pass on knowledge
from one person to another let alone
from one generation to another we would
know much much less about the world
around us so learning about a topic by
asking an expert on that topic or
appealing to Authority helps us gain
knowledge but it doesn't always even the
most highly respected authorities can
turn out to be wrong occasionally this
happens because a highly respected
Authority is dishonest and claims to
know something that she or he really
doesn't know sometimes it happens just
because they make a mistake they think
they know when they don't know for
example a number of respected economists
did not expect the financial collapse of
2008 they turned out to be wrong maybe
they were wrong because they were
overlooking some important evidence
maybe they were wrong because they were
misinterpreting some of the evidence
they had noticed or maybe they were
wrong simply because they were reasoning
carelessly from the total body of their
evidence
but whatever the reason they turned out
to be wrong and many people who trusted
their authority ended up
lots of money and losing lots of other
people's money on account of that
misplaced trust so while appealing to
Authority can sometimes provide us with
valuable knowledge
it also can sometimes be the cause of
monumental errors it's important to all
of us to be able to distinguish those
occasions on which we can safely and
reasonably trust authority from those
occasions on which we can't but how do
we do that in order to do that
nothing is more useful than an
authorities track record on a particular
topic if someone turns out to perform
well in a given situation much of the
time then it's likely that he or she
will continue to perform well in that
same situation at least in the near term
and this generalization holds true of
the testimony of authorities as much as
of anything else if someone can
consistently pick winners in both
politics and baseball then we should
probably trust him or her to keep on
picking winners in both politics or
baseball though maybe not in other
things where his or her track record may
be less stellar if other forecasters
have a poorer track record on those same
two topics then we shouldn't trust them
as much so whenever you're considering
whether to trust the testimony of some
authority the first question to ask
yourself is what's their track record on
this topic and notice that you can apply
the very same lesson to yourself your
instinct to tell you that you've just
met mr. right but what sort of track
record do your instincts have on topics
like this one have your instincts proven
themselves to be worthy of your trust
just as we judge other people's
testimony by their track record so too
we can judge our own instincts by their
track record and this brings us one step
closer to an objective view of ourselves
and our relation to the world around us
you